AdPlug Winamp plugin v1.5

Copyright (c) 1999 - 2004 Simon Peter <dn.tlp@gmx.net>
Copyright (c) 2002 Nikita V. Kalaganov <riven@ok.ru>

Website: http://adplug.sourceforge.net
Module Archive: http://chiptunes.back2roots.org

Description:
------------
AdPlug is a Winamp input plugin. Winamp is a fast, high-fidelity audio player
for Windows (get it at www.winamp.com). AdPlug plays music, originally
composed for the AdLib (OPL2) audio board, on top of an OPL2 emulator or by
using the real hardware. No OPL chip is required for playback.

Installation:
-------------
If you got the PiMPed version, everything should already be in place.

For the classic zipped version, you need to extract the file "in_adlib.dll"
from the archive to your Winamp plugin directory (on most machines this will
be C:\Program Files\Winamp\Plugins).

If, after installation, the plugin won't show up in Winamp's input plugin
dialog, and you know you installed it to the right place, your system maybe
doesn't fulfill AdPlug's library requirements. You need at least the files
MSVCRT.DLL, MSVCIRT.DLL and MSVCP60.DLL in your WINDOWS\SYSTEM directory. If
you are missing one of these, you can find them on the Internet. Just start
your favorite search engine to find them.

Usage:
------
You can now open a supported file in Winamp. Doubleclicking on the song name
scroller displays some infos about the currently playing file. AdPlug should
automatically configure itself to the best available replay condition.

Configuration:
--------------
Configure AdPlug by doubleclicking on it in the
Options|Preferences|Plug-ins|Input dialog (press Ctrl+P to go to the
preferences dialog).

Output Tab:
-----------
In the "Output" Tab, you can select between three different output methods.
First, there is the emulated output (Ken Silverman's emulator is permanently
disabled at the moment due to platform incompatibilities), with output options
attached. If you got an OPL2 compatible soundcard, you can select the second
option to utilize it, giving the OPL2 port as parameter. If you have problems
with this setting, you can try to enable "No OPL2 testing" to bypass the
hardware checks. At last, there's a Disk Writer that produces .RAW files
that can also be played back by AdPlug. Underneath this setting, you can
select the output path, all .RAW files will be written to. This setting is
not to be confused with the .WAV Writer output plugin of Winamp itself. If
you want .WAV files, use their output plugin with the Emulator setting instead.

Playback Tab:
-------------
Here are 4 options to be set:
"Autodetect song end": Turning off this option makes the songs play endlessly
(preserving the original loop points), just like the old modplayers did. Note
that you can obviously forget about using playlists when doing this.

"Fast seek": This is only needed for hardware OPL2 replay. If seeking takes
too long on your machine, you can turn on this option to make it significantly
faster. The drawback with it is that the replayer won't preserve the module
commands that would normally have been played in the time you skipped and the
module may sound a bit wrong for a short time after the seek.

"Standard refresh rate": This is only needed for .RAW Disk Writer output. If
this option is enabled, AdPlug will write the output to disk, but in the speed
it would have played it, would a real output be in use. So this takes
significantly longer.

"Use Database": If checked, AdPlug will use the database file, selected with
the next button, to get replay information about some problematic files. An
up-to-date version of the database can always be downloaded at AdPlug's website.

"Thread Priority": This can be used to make AdPlug a more or lesser important
task in your system. Depending on your needs, this could be useful.

Formats tab:
------------
In here, you can select all formats AdPlug should readily accept to replay.
If you got other plugins to handle some of AdPlug's normally supported file
types (MIDI is probably the best example), deselect the file types in here
and AdPlug won't ever again try to play back these files, until you re-select
the file types, of course. Remember to restart Winamp after you made changes,
since this is sometimes necessary.

Known Problems:
---------------
The hardware replay won't work with SB AWE32/64 soundcards on the fly.
Although the plugin will detect their OPL chip properly, there will be no
sound output. This is a driver issue with the Creative FM driver. Zbigniew
Luszpinski found a possible way around it and wrote a little program to do the
trick. It can be downloaded at the AdPlug website.

Realtime song position display in AdPlug's file info box is ahead of the heard
sound when the emulator is used.

OPL2 hardware output on Windows NT/2000/XP:
-------------------------------------------
This version of AdPlug is capable to use a hardware OPL2 also under
Windows NT/2000/XP! To do this, AdPlug uses the PortTalk device driver. This
driver can be downloaded from http://www.beyondlogic.org/porttalk/porttalk.htm.

After downloading the driver, please read the enclosed PDF file for
installation instructions. I strongly recommend the manual installation method,
using the registry file!
